Dokka Gradle plugin doc update (#4354)
orangy/dokka: docs/topics/runners/dokka-gradle.md

[//]: # (title: Gradle)

> This guide applies to Dokka Gradle plugin (DGP) v2 mode. The previous DGP v1 mode is no longer supported.
> If you're upgrading from v1 to v2 mode, see the [Migration guide](dokka-migration.md).
>
{style="note"}

To generate documentation for a Gradle-based project, you can use the 
[Gradle plugin for Dokka](https://plugins.gradle.org/plugin/org.jetbrains.dokka).

The Dokka Gradle plugin (DGP) comes with basic autoconfiguration for your project, 
includes [Gradle tasks](#generate-documentation) for 
generating documentation, and provides [configuration options](#configuration-options) to 
customize the output.

You can play around with Dokka and explore how to configure it for various projects in our
[Gradle example projects](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/tree/2.0.0/examples/gradle-v2).

## Apply Dokka

The recommended way of applying the Gradle plugin for Dokka is with the 

> [plugins DSL](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/plugins.html#sec:plugins_block).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The recommended way of applying the Gradle plugin for Dokka is with the 
[plugins block](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/plugins_intermediate.html#sec:plugins_block).
```

Gradle has updated their docs and terminology slightly.

To share Dokka configuration across modules, you can use either:

* [Direct configuration in multi-module projects without convention plugins](#direct-configuration-in-multi-module-projects-without-convention-plugins)
* [Convention plugins](#multi-module-projects-with-convention-plugins)

After sharing Dokka configuration, you can aggregate the documentation from multiple modules into a single output. 
For more information, see
[Aggregate documentation output in multi-module projects](#aggregate-documentation-output-in-multi-module-projects).

> For a multi-module project example, see the [Dokka GitHub repository](https://github.com/Kotlin/dokka/tree/master/examples/gradle-v2/multimodule-example).
>
{style="tip"}

#### Direct configuration in multi-module projects without convention plugins

If your project doesn't use convention plugins, you can share Dokka configurations by directly configuring each module.
This involves manually setting up the shared configuration in each module's `build.gradle.kts` file. 
While this approach is less centralized,
it avoids the need for additional setups like convention plugins.

> Follow the next steps to configure your multi-module project without convention plugins.

Reviewer 2: I don't get this part. It should be the next steps without convention plugins, but then we start describing how to create a convention plugin.

Author: "Without" means that require one, that's why we have the instructions to create one. I've updated it, hopefully it is clearer.

Author: @adam-enko I remember writing these instructions with content you provided. Any idea about how to better differenciate `Direct configuration in multi-project builds requiring convention plugins﻿` vs `Multi-project builds with convention plugins﻿` sections?

subprojects, and other [configuration options](#configuration-options):

```kotlin
plugins {
    id("org.jetbrains.dokka") version "%dokkaVersion%"
}

dokka {
    // Sets properties for the whole project
    dokkaPublications.html {
        moduleName.set("My Project")
        outputDirectory.set(layout.buildDirectory.dir("docs/html"))
        includes.from("README.md")
    }

    dokkaSourceSets.configureEach {
        documentedVisibilities.set(setOf(VisibilityModifier.Public)) // OR documentedVisibilities(VisibilityModifier.Public)    
    }
}

// Aggregates subproject documentation
dependencies {
    dokka(project(":childProjectA"))
    dokka(project(":childProjectB"))
}
```

Additionally, each subproject can have its own `dokka {}` block if it needs custom configuration.
In the following example, the subproject applies the Dokka plugin, sets a custom subproject name, 
and includes additional documentation from its `README.md` file:

```kotlin
// subproject/build.gradle.kts
plugins {
    id("org.jetbrains.dokka")
}

dokka {
    dokkaPublications.html {
        moduleName.set("Child Project A")
        includes.from("README.md")
    }
}
```

## Configuration options

> Dokka has many configuration options to tailor your and your reader's experience. 

Reviewer: The dokka-gradle page is pretty big. Everything is valuable, but maybe it'd help to split it up a bit?

Most of the docs are about project set up. Maybe we could split out the 'Gradle configuration' options to a separate page? They are slightly different topics. 

Or maybe split out the 'gradle project set up' stuff (about plugin applying, convention plugins, aggregation).

Just a thought, I don't have strong opinions.

### Source link configuration

Configure source links 
to allow navigation from the generated documentation to the corresponding source code in a remote repository.
Use the `dokkaSourceSets.main{}` block for this configuration.

The `sourceLinks` configuration block allows you to add a `source` link to each signature
that leads to the `remoteUrl` with a specific line number. 
The line number is configurable by setting `remoteLineSuffix`.

This helps readers to find the source code for each declaration.

For an example, see the documentation for the
[`count()`](https://kotlinlang.org/api/kotlinx.coroutines/kotlinx-coroutines-core/kotlinx.coroutines.flow/count.html)
function in `kotlinx.coroutines`.

> The syntax of `build.gradle.kts` files differs from regular `.kt` 

Reviewer 2: Is the problem with missed accessors applicable for KGP? We don't have .kt samples there.

> The syntax of `build.gradle.kts` files differs from regular `.kt` 

Reviewer: > Is the problem with missed accessors applicable for KGP? We don't have .kt samples there.

KGP tries to minimise the need for generated accessors. For example, `kotlin.sourceSets.nativeMain {}` - the `nativeMain` accessor is defined in KGP, it's not generated.
